README.md, before:

## John Prendergast
### gitMunny
#### A capstone project utilizing deep reinforcement learning to predict cryptocurrency markets

This project aims to train and deploy a deep-learned recurrent neural network trained with reinforcement learning with the end-goal of making accurate trades in the cryptocurrency market. The minimum viable product is a RNN that can consistently predict and trade for profit. Once the MVP is implemented, natural language processing on posts originating from [r/CryptoMarkets](reddit.com/r/CryptoMarkets) and the Wall Street Journal will be added as features to predict against.

While there are some similar projects being implemented currently, none that I could find (open-source) currently utilize NLP.
Here is a link to one such repo:
[PyTrader](https://github.com/owocki/pytrader)

Naturally, I am not yet proficient in reinforcement learning (using Keras) in trading, so I will need references to help me along the way. Below is one that shows promise.
[The Self Learning Quant](https://hackernoon.com/the-self-learning-quant-d3329fcc9915)

This project represents quite the undertaking and therefore, the capstone will be a proof-of-concept model. I will continue to build upon my product and hopefully implement a cryptomarket analytical tool available for a small subscription.

Commit message:

Me right now -> https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tCAK6MZ4FEs

README.md, after:

# gitMunny
#### A foray into reinforcement learning aiming to profitably trade with Deep-Q Networks
![Poloniex Chart -- BitCoin](./images/bitcoinExchange.png)
<div style = 'text-align: center'>
<img src=./images/Bitcoin_logo.png><img src=./images/ethereumLogo.png>
</div>

## Initial Goals
The ultimate goals of the gitMunny project are quite far reaching; however, the most important first-step is to successfully train an 'agent' to make trading decisions using reinforcement learning.
- This was done using standard cryptocurrency price data (close, high low, open, etc.), and the algorithm succeeded in making "informed" decisions, which tended to be profitable. There are some caveats to this, which will be discussed below.

## A Brief Overview of Reinforcement Learning

- **Agents** are a class of algorithms wich make choices once they are deployed. Many ML algorithms can be described as **agents**.
- These **agents** are generally trained using either **Unsupervised Learning** (where the algorithm finds patterns and similarities in the given data) and **Supervised Learning** (where the algorithm is trained using known labels or values, also called **targets**)
- In a **reinforcement learning** algorithm, neither of these descriptors is quite right. As the algorithm is being trained, it learns not from given labels or values, but rather receives a reward for any given action it decides to take. This reward is determined by a policy, and can be negative or positive. In each **episode** (iteration through a training loop), the algorithm learns from this reward.
- **Deep-Q Networks** are one method of deploying reinforcement learning to neural networks. For each **state** of the **environment** (the framework of data and rules through which the agent acts and receives rewards), the network predicts Q-values for each possible action the agent can take. These Q-values represent the expected sum of rewards. The **action** is the index of the maximum of these Q-values.
- **Training Data** in a RL algorithm can be rather tricky, as the agent has no prior knowledge of the environment (or state space), so it must first begin by making random actions, and learning from the rewards it receives. In essence, the algorithm generates the training values itself, then trains on them.  

| | 1,000 steps | 5,000 steps | 10,000 steps|
|---| --- | --- | ---|
|Trading Summary| ![RL1](./images/BTC_1000sgd_summary.png) | ![RL2](./images/BTC_5000sgd_summary.png) | ![RL3](images/BTC_10000sgd_summary.png)|

###Learning Progress

![Progress](images/reward_curve_sgd.png)
![progress](images/reward_curve.png)


### References
[The Self Learning Quant](https://hackernoon.com/the-self-learning-quant-d3329fcc9915)
[Eder Santana -- github](https://github.com/EderSantana/X)
[PyTrader](https://github.com/owocki/pytrader/)
